## useful:forms Public API ##

Form Template Mixin

_API documentation automatically generated by [docmeteor](https://github.com/raix/docmeteor)._

-

### <a name="Forms.trigger"></a>*Forms*.trigger(type, element, data)&nbsp;&nbsp;<sub><i>Client</i></sub> ###

```
Triggers a jquery event on a DOM element.
Primarily used by Forms package to update the doc when a user has modified one of the form fields.
```
*This method __trigger__ is defined in `Forms`*

__Arguments__

* __type__ *{string}*  

 event to be triggered

* __element__ *{string}*  

 DOM element to trigger event onto

* __data__ *{object}*  

 Current template instance data context.


__Returns__  *{undefined}*

Example:
```
Forms.trigger('documentChange', e.currentTarget, { doc: doc });
```

> ```Forms.trigger = function (type, element, data) { ...``` [lib/forms.js:96](lib/forms.js#L96)


-

### <a name="Forms.eventHandlerIsActive"></a>*Forms*.eventHandlerIsActive(templateInstance, event, [isActive])&nbsp;&nbsp;<sub><i>Client</i></sub> ###

```
Allows to disable and re-enable any of the default Forms package event handlers.
```
*This method __eventHandlerIsActive__ is defined in `Forms`*

__Arguments__

* __templateInstance__ *{object}*  

 A Blaze.TemplateInstance object.

* __event__ *{string}*  

 Event to be affected. Valid values are `'submit'` (form submit event) and `'change'` (triggered when the value of an input element is changed).

* __isActive__ *{boolean}*  (Optional)

 Set to `true` to enable or `false` to disable the handler.


__Returns__  *The*
current status of the event handler (true=active or false=inactive)

All handlers are enabled by default when a new template which makes use of the Forms mixin is created. This function is useful when you need to override the default behavior e.g. to manipulate some form values or perform some other actions before validating the form values and updating the document.

Note that, if you disable either the `submit` or the `change` handlers then you need to manually call the `Forms.submit()` or `Forms.change()` functions respectively in order to properly validate and update the attached reactive document properly. See example below.

Example:

In the template onCreated helper:
```js
Template.myForm.onCreated = function () {
Forms.eventHandlerIsActive(tmpl, 'submit', false);
}
```

In the template event helper:
```js
Template.myForm.events({
'submit': function (e, tmpl) {
...
// Do some custom stuff here
...
// ... and then make sure that the submit function is called.
// This way the reactive doc is validated and `documentSubmit` or `documentInvalid` event is triggered.
Forms.submit(e, tmpl);
}
});
```

> ```Forms.eventHandlerIsActive = function (templateInstance, event, isActive) { ...``` [lib/forms.js:315](lib/forms.js#L315)


